# 2019-04-05: A week of Haskell

## The premise

So we had a HackWeek at XING, and I chose learning Haskell as my project this
time. Around the same time last year, I built a small savegame editor for
Starbound in Haskell. I didn't really grasp what the language is all about,
and ran into trouble constantly.

I still wanted to know the language better, but in between doing $WORK, Nix
stuff, keeping up with the usual JS and Ruby insanity and relearning Elixir &
Phoenix, there wasn't much time for it.

For this time, I chose the
[Learn You a Haskell for Great Good!](http://learnyouahaskell.com)
book. Mostly because it's free and in HTML, so easy to download and search.

Some nice quotes about it from #learn-haskell are:

> qu1j0t3: also LYAH is just kind of ick
> Peter_Storm_: Yeah, haskellbook is about a million times better than LYAH
> lunabo: I liked some parts of LYAH but it doesn't prepare you very well for writing more realistic Haskell code

At the point when I read those remarks, my week was almost over, so I didn't end up buying the recommended
[Haskell Programming from first principles](http://haskellbook.com/). Although in retrospect I wish I had.

# The good

Well, with that out of the way, let's get to Haskell itself. It's a good
language for problems that you can model in your mind beforehand. At least
that's my experience. Once you got a mental model of how the data should flow,
you can basically just write that down and reasonably expect it to work.

I really enjoy this aspect also in other languages, and with more practice,
maybe I'll try using it for some of my otherwise hacky scripts that I usually
write in Ruby or Go. Using `runhaskell` isn't bad, but you have to take care of
dependencies a lot. The stdlib may look large, but a lot of it is simply related
to what is needed to build GHC.

It doesn't have an HTTP client/server, JSON or YAML parser, and various other
things I'd like to have handy when writing some simple plumbing script.
In this regard it's similar to Erlang/Elixir, which just focus on the core
language platform, that everything is built on, and less on the developer
experience out of the box.

I can get behind this, but once you get to dependency handling it's not a simple
script anymore. That's where `nix-shell` can help a lot.

# The ugly

The LYaH tries to be funny and technical at the same time, and seems to fail at
both. I got distracted by typos and some sections are simply a list of functions
with a short description of what it does.
There are very few exercises until you finally work on a Todo list around
chapter 9. I made it to printing `Hello, World!` on Thursday.

The first two days were mostly spent trying to understand the relationship
between Stack and Nix and how to properly setup my editor with Haskell, and there
are various half-completed ways to do that.

I never found the ideal setup before giving up on that, and just went with a
more-or-less working setup of the
[Haskell IDE Engine](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-ide-engine#using-hie-with-spacemacs).

For some reason the code formatting is still broken sometimes, auto-completion
is hit-or-miss, automatically inserting type signatures is still broken, it
tries to add dependencies via cabal instead of stack, and I didn't spend more
time on trying to get it to work with
[direnv](https://direnv.net/) or nix-sandbox, so I just used a user-global
Haskell and HIE installation for Emacs.
