# 2019-05-13: Ruby & Nix

## Why do you write about this?

As some of you know, I've been using Ruby for well over a decade now, and it's
still a language I use almost every day for work or pleasure in some fashion,
even if it's a quick calculation in irb.

I regularly see questions in `#nixos` and the
[NixOS Discourse](https://discourse.nixos.org/) from folks that want to run some
simple Ruby application that hasn't been packaged yet or work on their Ruby
stuff with all the gems they need.

While there is documentation about this in
[the nixpkgs manual](https://nixos.org/nixpkgs/manual/#sec-language-ruby),
I thought I'd finally share my usual approach to this to clear things up and
save me writing the same answers to every question.

## Why do i need Nix?

This is usually the first thing that goes through your mind if you are already
used to using Ruby and Bundler in an imperative fashion.
Of course you care about what version of Ruby you're using, so you use another
package manager for that, something like `rvm`, `chruby`, `asdf`, etc.

After that, you just go into some project, run `bundle install`, and with a bit
of luck everything works more or less.

That's of course, until the project starts using gems that aren't pure Ruby or
use some 3rd-party executable. The most popular gems with this issue at the
time of writing are things like `tzinfo`, `nokogiri`, `ffi`, `pg`, `sqlite3`.

Each of these gems in turn has some prejudice about your environment and may or
may not find the required dependencies.

So you start writing installation instructions for each system you want to
support, with a few lines for each of their respective package manager. You have
`apt`, `pacman` and `brew` and hopefully someone will contribute instructions
for other systems because that's all you have experience with.

So, the next logical step is to not only have all these instructions, but also
provide a Dockerfile that pulls random stuff from the internets and finally
provides the one true environment that your application is supposed to run in.

I mean, who'd ever object to such elegance?

What if we could express all of the above in a declarative fashion that can be
used by everyone else coming to the project with a single command, doesn't
require containers or causes conflicts because your old project uses PostgreSQL
9.4 but your new one uses 9.10?

It turns out that there is another way that is:

* Reproducible
* Cachable
* Portable
* Reliable

And that's where I'd like to present the Nix approach to project management.
Meet our `shell.nix`:

```nix
with import (
  fetchTarball {
    url = https://github.com/nixos/nixpkgs-channels/archive/0c0954781e257b8b0dc49341795a2fe7d96945a3.tar.gz;
    sha256 = "05fq11wg8mik4zvfjy2gap59r8n0gfbklsw61r45wlqi7a2zsl0y";
  }
);

let gems = bundlerEnv { name = "my-gems"; gemdir = ./.; };
in mkShell { buildInputs = [ gems gems.wrappedRuby ]; }
```

This may seem intimidating at a first glance for people unfamiliar with Nix, but
the principle is simple.
We import a snapshot of [nixpkgs](https://nixos.org/nixpkgs/).
Just based on this, the version of Ruby, tzinfo, libxml, libzmq, postgresql,
sqlite3, and everything else you need, is already specified and used correctly.

The tedious part is deciding _which_ version of `nixpkgs` you want, but I
usually use the latest unstable with this script:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

set -e

url="https://github.com/nixos/nixpkgs-channels"
channel="${@:-nixpkgs-unstable}"
rev="$(git ls-remote "$url" "$channel" | cut -f1)"
archive="$url/archive/$rev.tar.gz"
sha=$(nix-prefetch-url --unpack "$archive")
cat <<EOF
fetchTarball {
  url = $archive;
  sha256 = "$sha";
}
EOF
```
