---
title: Euphenix
date: 2019-08-15
language: en
---

I ended up having to move some sites from Weebly to something more affordable
and reliable, since most of them sit around for months without changes. I also
think their stance of charging for TLS is silly, and the lack of an export
function for your content is just evil.

That said, they are good for their CMS part, which allows relatively fast
prototyping of sites, and eventually I'm also looking for a replacement for
this, but for now it's not urgent.

After having a look around, i decided on moving them to
[Netlify](https://netlify.com). They have a pretty good free tier with proper
TLS and form handling. Deploys are also quite easy to automate in different
ways.

I evaluated a bunch of different static site generators (most of them listed on
[https://www.staticgen.com/](StaticGen)), the ones I liked the most were
[Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [Hakyll](http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/).

What also caught my eye was [https://styx-static.github.io/styx-site/](Styx),
which is implemented entirely in Nix and looked very good.

I started with porting the site of [Finesco](https://finesco.jp), which my wife
originally made on Weebly. It's not too fancy and apart from the two blogs it
looked like it would be easy to reimplement in Hugo.

Turns out that Hugo wasn't flexible enough after all, given its compiled nature
I struggled trying to make some kind of archive page for each year, and ended up
with a lot of hacks around taxonomies.

That's when I started looking at Hakyll. I've been dabbling with Haskell for a
long time, and quickly got the site ported from Hugo, with a few extra features
to boot.

After that, I tried building a Docker image with [Nix](https://nixos.org/nix)
for site, and it turned out that the image would be in the gigabyte range
instead of the few megabyte i was hoping for.

Apparently responsible for this was the pandoc dependency, which prevented me
from compiling statically, and I wasn't versed enough in Haskell to figure out
how to inject a precompiled pandoc instead. (Now I might be able to do it, but
good luck even finding that option form their docs).

Since I was on a learning journey anyway, I then took a look at Styx, but noped
out of there pretty soon when I realized that the templates are also written in
Nix, and it had a huge performance penalty and very weak editor support.

I still was intrigued by the idea of having something as simple as Hugo but with
the power of Nix for generating my sites, and so I started to work on a little
project in my spare time to flesh out that idea.

After a couple of iterations, I finally arrived at this:

```nix
let
  euphenix = (import (fetchTarball {
    url =
      "https://github.com/manveru/euphenix/archive/eaaee37df12e8fccced3a4ac93402d6b3e5fcf54.tar.gz";
  }) { }).extend (self: super: {
    parseMarkdown =
      super.parseMarkdown.override { flags = { prismjs = true; }; };
  });
  inherit (euphenix.lib) take;
  inherit (euphenix) build sortByRecent loadPosts;
in euphenix.build {
  rootDir = ./.;
  layout = ./templates/layout.liquid;
  favicon = ./static/img/favicon.svg;

  variables = { liveJS = true; };

  expensiveVariables = rec {
    posts = sortByRecent (loadPosts "/blog/" ./blog);
    latestPosts = take 5 posts;
  };
}
```

That is the whole configuration needed to build the site you're reading right
now. The rest of it is pretty standard HTML, CSS, and a few sprinkles of
Javascript for eye-candy and syntax-highlighting (until I generate that
statically as well).

I'm still pondering using a different templating engine or implementing the
templating myself instead of relying on [Infuse](https://github.com/jucardi/infuse).
Infuse was great for getting started, but it's originally meant for
configuration files and simpler use-cases.

Just getting a list of required variables from the template automatically would
be great without having to do that with some unreliable regular expressions.

Another relatively easy option would be to use
[Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/), which already has a massive
user-base and I'm pretty familiar with it. It's also closer in syntax to Go
templates than many alternatives, so wouldn't require a lot of effort to port
the Infuse templates.

For now though, I'll keep the `expensiveVariables` hack around until I get time
again to build something better. I hope the name is warning enough that people
won't rely on it too much.

The trick with `expensiveVariables` is that you annotate in the front-matter of
tmeplates which variables are required for rendering. And while that's not a DRY
solution, it's not used often and should be relatively straight-forward. I just
need a better name for it.

So right now you can write something like this:

```html
<!--
requires: latestPosts
-->
{{ range .latestPosts }}{{ .meta.title  }}{{ end }}
```

And through the magic of lazyness in Nix, the page will only be rebuilt if
latestPosts has changed.

Anyway, this is it for today, there are many more topics that could be covered
by proper documentation, but writing like this makes me think things through a
bit better.

If you read until now, you may as well check the project:
[Euphenix](https://github.com/manveru/euphenix)
