---
date: 2019-03-23
title: Back to the roots
language: en
---

Well, it's been a while since I've updated this blog of mine, and this is
certainly not going to be read by anybody, but just wanted to say that I'll try
to write at least occasionally again about random stuff.

A lot has happened in the past few years, and I never made a proper overview of
the languages and projects I've worked with.

This blog still runs on the same software I wrote back in 2012, and I'll
probably get around to modifying it eventually and fixing a few minor bugs.

But it's a testament to the stability of Go, I can run the same code nearly
unmodified (just two dependencies changed location and I ported it to use
modules) 6 years later.

Who would've thought that they would actually achieve that back then? I'm still
using Go occasionally for things that I just want to write a very stable version
of once, and then forget about it.

It's relatively easy to package, cross-platform, reasonably fast, and requires
very little of my working language memory to write stuff in, compared to
something like Ruby where I constantly forget method names or arguments and
proper auto-completion is still an issue.

Anyway, I've also been quite intersted in ActivityPub, and will try to get some
of that functionality going here, similar to what [write freely](https://writefreely.org/)
is doing (which is also in Go, so I can probably borrow some ideas :)

After having my various blogs hosted on so many different 3rd party sites, I
finally got tired of moving around when they inevitably change/close. So instead
I'll finally host it myself.

There's a lot of hype around [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/) and similar projects for
blogs, but I value simplicity in this case more.

So that's all I can write about for today, hope you didn't miss me too much ;)
